docs/docs/dave/nuvlabox.md, before:

---
layout: default-edit
title: NuvlaBox - Edge Solution
parent: Dave - Administrator
nav_order: 7
---

NuvlaBox
========

The NuvlaBox software allows Dave to transform most ARM and x86 hardware platform into a smart edge device, managed by a Nuvla service.

SixSq has certified a number of hardware platforms. Using such platforms ensures a smooth deployment.  For x86 based systems, these include machines from HPE, Dell and Logic Supply. For ARM based systems, these include Raspberry Pi.  For a complete list, please refer to [SixSq website](https://sixsq.com/products-and-services/nuvlabox/tech-spec).

### Prerequisites 

To install the NuvlaBox Engine, you'll need:
 - *Docker (version 18 or higher)*
 - *Docker Compose (version 1.23.2 or higher)*
 
The NuvlaBox Engine will, during bootstrap, double check for other requirements, but you'll be automatically prompted in case some of these are not met.

If you need help setting-up the base operating system, we have documented [instructions for the Raspberry Pi](#raspberry-pi-arm-example), as an example of small ARM based single board computer. For x86 architecture, using a recent Ubuntu or CentOS should most of the required dependencies.

## NuvlaBox Engine

**Install NuvlaBox Engine**

Now let's clone the GitHub [nuvlabox/deployment](https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment) repository, which contains Docker Compose files:

```
git clone https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment.git
cd deployment
```

From there, the simplest way to install the NuvlaBox Engine is to use [Nuvla.io](https://nuvla.io), SixSq's managed Nuvla service.  But you can also use your own Nuvla service. You will find alternative [deployment instructions](https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment/blob/master/README.md) in GitHub - e.g. on-premise and local Nuvla deployments.

Before you can deploy on the RPi a NuvlaBox Engine, you need a *NuvlaBox UUID*. This ensures that the NuvlaBox is unique and belongs to you. To create a new NuvlaBox entry, following these steps:

 1. login into [Nuvla.io](https://nuvla.io)
 2. on the edge page, create a new `nuvlabox` (*+add* button top right of the page) and save the UUID.
 3. simply `export NUVLABOX_UUID=` UUID you saved, **or** paste that UUID in the `docker-compose.yml` file, under the NUVLABOX_UUID environment variable
    ```
    export NUVLABOX_UUID=_____CHANGE_ME______
    ```
 4. Also set a couple more environment variables:
    ```
    export HOST=nuvlabox-$(echo ${NUVLABOX_ID} | cut -d / -f 2)
    export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
    ````

 5. install the NuvlaBox Engine
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --abort-on-container-exit
    ```

Once the deployment is complet, in the Nuvla edge page, you should see your new NuvlaBox *online*.

You're now good to go!

## Raspberry Pi

The Raspberry Pi is a nice ARM based single board computer. It's a good place to start if you are looking at small footprint edge devices.

### Raspbian Installation

[Install Raspbian](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) on your SD card. The following documentation assumes you are using the **Raspbian Buster Lite** distribution is sufficient. Raspbian is the default operating system for Raspberry Pi and is based on Debian.

> **Note:** *Etcher* is a nice tool that facilitates Raspbian installation on an SD card. 

> **Note:** Don't eject your SD card just yet.

### Install and Configure Dependencies for NuvlaBox

Before we can deploy the NuvlaBox Engine, we need to install Docker and configure the Raspbian environment.

**Enable SSH**

To complete the installation of the NuvlaBox Engine software, you will need to enable ssh in the RPi.  There are a [few ways of doing this](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/). Since we are baking a new SD card, the easiest way is to create an empty file at the root of the SD card called *ssh*:

```
touch ssh
```

With this file present, when the RPi boots, it will enable ssh.  However, it will have the default username (*pi*) and password (*raspbian*), so you will want to change this before you put this device on the network, or setup a public ssh key and disable password authentication.

**Install OpenVPN**

The security infrastructure of Nuvla and the NuvlaBox leverages [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net). To install the client, run the follong command:

```
sudo apt install openvpn
```

**Install Docker**

The NuvlaBox Engine is a set of micro-services packaged as Docker containers.  We will need to install Docker and Docker Compose. To [install Docker on the RPi](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/#install-using-the-convenience-script), run the following commands:

Put the newly backed SD card into your RPi and connect it to the network (providing DHCP) or directly to your laptop (make sure you don't have a firewall blocking the RPi). You can then power up the RPi.

SSH into it and run the following commands:

```
sudo apt update -y
curl -sL get.docker.com | sed 's/9)/10)/' | sh
sudo apt install -y python-pip
sudo apt install libffi-dev
sudo pip install docker-compose
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

Then, **don't forget the logout and log back in**.  This will update your group configuration.

**Install Git**

Git is used to retrieve the Docker Compose file describing the NuvlaBox Engine micro-services.

```
sudo apt install -y git
```

**Configure OpenVPN Client**

In order to establish a secured connection into the NuvlaBox, Nuvla uses OpenVPN. In order for this communication to work, the NuvlaBox must initiate the connection. This in turn requires a configuration, specific to each NuvlaBox.

While this step will soon be fully automated, currently you will require to get an OpenVPN configuration. For Nuvla.io, please contact the [support service](mailto:support@sixsq.com) to receive the configuration file. Then save the file as:

```
/etc/openvpn/client/nuvlabox.conf
```

And then enable the OpenVPN client service:

```
sudo systemctl enable openvpn-client@nuvlabox
sudo systemctl start openvpn-client@nuvlabox
``` 


<!--
>> add to docker group

docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.3.3

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-local'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='192.168.3.3'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=192.168.3.1
export NUVLABOX_UUID=_____CHANGE_ME______

sudo apt install git
git clone https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment.git
cd deployment

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox










>>>>>>

docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.3.3

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-local'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='192.168.3.3'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=192.168.3.1
export NUVLABOX_UUID=7b717a6a-e26d-4e64-86e2-40adef93cce8
docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox



docker swarm init --advertise-addr 10.0.128.98

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-remote'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='10.0.128.98'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=nuvla.io
export NUVLABOX_UUID=fc1190b8-1db1-4bd0-99dd-d0c51ca96bb9

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox




docker swarm init --advertise-addr 10.0.128.99

export HOST='nuvlabox-alfred-werner-demo-remote'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='10.0.128.99'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=nuvla.io
export NUVLABOX_UUID=f8a62930-f287-4946-9e22-e4297a7b81cf

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox



>>>>


Set static ip:

in /etc/dhcpcd.conf

# LAN (RJ45)
profile static_eth0
static ip_address=192.168.3.3/24
#static routers=192.168.3.1
#static domain_name_servers=192.168.3.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

interface eth0
fallback static_eth0


# WLAN (WiFi)
profile static_wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.2.3/24
static routers=192.168.2.1
static domain_name_servers=192.168.2.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

interface wlan0
fallback static_wlan0

-->

Commit message:

Add swarm activation and clarify VPN

docs/docs/dave/nuvlabox.md, after:

---
layout: default-edit
title: NuvlaBox - Edge Solution
parent: Dave - Administrator
nav_order: 7
---

NuvlaBox
========

The NuvlaBox software allows Dave to transform most ARM and x86 hardware platform into a smart edge device, managed by a Nuvla service.

SixSq has certified a number of hardware platforms. Using such platforms ensures a smooth deployment.  For x86 based systems, these include machines from HPE, Dell and Logic Supply. For ARM based systems, these include Raspberry Pi.  For a complete list, please refer to [SixSq website](https://sixsq.com/products-and-services/nuvlabox/tech-spec).

### Prerequisites 

To install the NuvlaBox Engine, you'll need:
 - *Docker (version 18 or higher)*
 - *Docker Compose (version 1.23.2 or higher)*
 
The NuvlaBox Engine will, during bootstrap, double check for other requirements, but you'll be automatically prompted in case some of these are not met.

If you need help setting-up the base operating system, we have documented [instructions for the Raspberry Pi](#raspberry-pi-arm-example), as an example of small ARM based single board computer. For x86 architecture, using a recent Ubuntu or CentOS should most of the required dependencies.

## NuvlaBox Engine

**Install NuvlaBox Engine**

Now let's clone the GitHub [nuvlabox/deployment](https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment) repository, which contains Docker Compose files:

```
git clone https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment.git
cd deployment
```

From there, the simplest way to install the NuvlaBox Engine is to use [Nuvla.io](https://nuvla.io), SixSq's managed Nuvla service.  But you can also use your own Nuvla service. You will find alternative [deployment instructions](https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment/blob/master/README.md) in GitHub - e.g. on-premise and local Nuvla deployments.

Before you can deploy on the RPi a NuvlaBox Engine, you need a *NuvlaBox UUID*. This ensures that the NuvlaBox is unique and belongs to you. To create a new NuvlaBox entry, following these steps:

 1. login into [Nuvla.io](https://nuvla.io)
 2. on the edge page, create a new `nuvlabox` (*+add* button top right of the page) and save the UUID.
 3. simply `export NUVLABOX_UUID=` UUID you saved, **or** paste that UUID in the `docker-compose.yml` file, under the NUVLABOX_UUID environment variable
    ```
    export NUVLABOX_UUID=_____CHANGE_ME______
    ```
 4. install the NuvlaBox Engine
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --abort-on-container-exit
    ```
 5. finally, activate the swarm, by running this command:
    ```
    docker swarm init --advertise-addr ______CHANGE_ME_VPNIP______
    ```
    where the value of the `______CHANGE_ME_VPNIP______` is the IP of the NuvlaBox on your VPN, or any other IP you want Nuvla to use to contact the NuvlaBox.

Once the deployment is complet, in the Nuvla edge page, you should see your new NuvlaBox *online*.

You're now good to go!

## Raspberry Pi

The Raspberry Pi is a nice ARM based single board computer. It's a good place to start if you are looking at small footprint edge devices.

### Raspbian Installation

[Install Raspbian](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspbian/) on your SD card. The following documentation assumes you are using the **Raspbian Buster Lite** distribution is sufficient. Raspbian is the default operating system for Raspberry Pi and is based on Debian.

> **Note:** *Etcher* is a nice tool that facilitates Raspbian installation on an SD card. 

> **Note:** Don't eject your SD card just yet.

### Install and Configure Dependencies for NuvlaBox

Before we can deploy the NuvlaBox Engine, we need to install Docker and configure the Raspbian environment.

**Enable SSH**

To complete the installation of the NuvlaBox Engine software, you will need to enable ssh in the RPi.  There are a [few ways of doing this](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/remote-access/ssh/). Since we are baking a new SD card, the easiest way is to create an empty file at the root of the SD card called *ssh*:

```
touch ssh
```

With this file present, when the RPi boots, it will enable ssh.  However, it will have the default username (*pi*) and password (*raspbian*), so you will want to change this before you put this device on the network, or setup a public ssh key and disable password authentication.

**Install OpenVPN**

The security infrastructure of Nuvla and the NuvlaBox leverages [OpenVPN](https://openvpn.net). To install the client, run the follong command:

```
sudo apt install -y openvpn
```

**Install Docker**

The NuvlaBox Engine is a set of micro-services packaged as Docker containers.  We will need to install Docker and Docker Compose. To [install Docker on the RPi](https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/debian/#install-using-the-convenience-script), run the following commands:

Put the newly backed SD card into your RPi and connect it to the network (providing DHCP) or directly to your laptop (make sure you don't have a firewall blocking the RPi). You can then power up the RPi.

SSH into it and run the following commands:

```
sudo apt update -y
curl -sL get.docker.com | sed 's/9)/10)/' | sh
sudo apt install -y python-pip
sudo apt install libffi-dev
sudo pip install docker-compose
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

Then, **don't forget the logout and log back in**.  This will update your group configuration.

**Install Git**

Git is used to retrieve the Docker Compose file describing the NuvlaBox Engine micro-services.

```
sudo apt install -y git
```

**Configure OpenVPN Client**

In order to establish a secured connection into the NuvlaBox, Nuvla uses OpenVPN. In order for this communication to work, the NuvlaBox must initiate the connection. This in turn requires a configuration, specific to each NuvlaBox.

While this step will soon be fully automated, currently you will require to get an OpenVPN configuration. For Nuvla.io, please contact the [support service](mailto:support@sixsq.com) to receive the configuration file. Then save the file as:

```
mkdir -p /etc/openvpn/client
sudo nano /etc/openvpn/client/nuvlabox.conf
```

And paste the configuration file.

Finally enable the OpenVPN client service:

```
sudo systemctl enable openvpn-client@nuvlabox
sudo systemctl start openvpn-client@nuvlabox
``` 


<!--
>> add to docker group

docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.3.3

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-local'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='192.168.3.3'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=192.168.3.1
export NUVLABOX_UUID=_____CHANGE_ME______

sudo apt install git
git clone https://github.com/nuvlabox/deployment.git
cd deployment

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox










>>>>>>

docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.3.3

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-local'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='192.168.3.3'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=192.168.3.1
export NUVLABOX_UUID=7b717a6a-e26d-4e64-86e2-40adef93cce8
docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox



docker swarm init --advertise-addr 10.0.128.98

export HOST='raspberrypi-demo-remote'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='10.0.128.98'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=nuvla.io
export NUVLABOX_UUID=fc1190b8-1db1-4bd0-99dd-d0c51ca96bb9

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox




docker swarm init --advertise-addr 10.0.128.99

export HOST='nuvlabox-alfred-werner-demo-remote'
export HOSTNAME="${HOST}"
export HOST_ADDRESSES='10.0.128.99'

export NUVLA_ENDPOINT=nuvla.io
export NUVLABOX_UUID=f8a62930-f287-4946-9e22-e4297a7b81cf

docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.onpremise.yml nuvlabox



>>>>


Set static ip:

in /etc/dhcpcd.conf

# LAN (RJ45)
profile static_eth0
static ip_address=192.168.3.3/24
#static routers=192.168.3.1
#static domain_name_servers=192.168.3.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

interface eth0
fallback static_eth0


# WLAN (WiFi)
profile static_wlan0
static ip_address=192.168.2.3/24
static routers=192.168.2.1
static domain_name_servers=192.168.2.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

interface wlan0
fallback static_wlan0

-->
